Let's take a look at how we can create a simple web service
using JAX-WS and what role JAXB plays in this.
We are going to take our purchaseOrder domain model and
create a purchase order web service around it.
The web service will be a simple class that can
store and receive purchase orders.
It will have a few operations to get the list of purchase orders,
to get a specific order, and to add and delete a purchase order.
To keep it simple, it will just keep the purchase orders in memory.
Let's take a look at example ps-jaxb-34-jaxws-server.
We start with our purchaseOrder domain model classes.
Let's add a class named PurchaseOrderWebService in which
we will implement our web service.
Let's start with adding a member variable of purchaseOrders to this class,
which stores the purchase orders.
It's a map which stores purchase orders by their IDs.
Now let's add some simple methods.
The getOrders method just returns a list with all the purchase orders.
The getOrder method looks up a purchase order by ID in the map,
and then returns the order that it has found or throws an illegal argument
exception if there is no order with the specified ID.
The addOrder method generates a new ID for the order,
puts it in a map, and then returns the generated ID.
The deleteOrder method deletes the order with the specified ID from the map.
Now we have a regular class with the functionality we need,
and the next step is to use JAX-WS to make a web service out of this class.
This is actually very easy.
All we need to do is put a WebService annotation on the class.
Now we, of course, need a way to run our web service.
You can run it by deploying it in a Java EE
application service such as GlassFish,
but there's also an easier way which is good enough for this demo and which
doesn't require us to install and set up an application server.
Let's add a main method to this class.
JAX-WS provides a class named Endpoint, which has a publish method,
which we can use to start a small HTTP server that will provide our web service.
We have to pass this method the URL on which we want our web
service to be available and the instance of the class that
provides the implementation of the web service.
That's all we need to do.
As you see, JAX-WS makes it super easy to create a web service,
and you don't even need an application server to run it.
I can just run this main method, and our web service is up and running.
I will say, however,
that if you are going to create web services for a real project,
you will most likely want to deploy them in a Java EE application server.
The HTTP server that the publish method of class Endpoint runs is
just a very simple little server which isn't as robust as a real
application server and which doesn't provide important features
for security and management.
One of the things that our little web service provides is a WSDL
that describes the operations that you can call.
Let's take a look at how we can see the WSDL.
When the web service is running,
I can use my browser to go to the following URL to see the WSDL.
I'm not going to go through all the details of the WSDL,
but if you look through it,
you will see that there are messages and operations that correspond
to the four methods of our web service class.
Before we continue,
I'll elaborate the JAX-WS annotations on class
PurchaseOrderWebService a bit more.
Since this is not a detailed course about web services,
I won't explain the annotations in detail,
but I've added these annotations to customize the names of
elements in the messages of our web service.
Let's restart it and look at the WSDL again.
You'll see that at the top it's referring to an XSD.
Let's take a look at that XSD.
This XSD describes the body of the SOAP messages
that our web service works with.
It defines a number of XML elements for the request and response
messages for the operations of the web service,
and also for our purchaseOrder domain model classes
exactly the same as the XSD that we've used in many of
the other examples of this course.
JAX-WS has used JAXB to generate the schema from our domain model classes.
As you see, JAX-WS makes it very easy to get an XML web service up and running. The next step is to write a client that calls the web service.